Flash memory is nonvolatile computer memory and is used as the permanent storage for the operating system
and other files.
This is very similar to the hard drive or flash drive on PCs today depending on the size of the flash.
Multiple copies of the Cisco Ioway can be stored in Flash.
Other files such as music on hold which is used in coal manage express environments can also be stored
in Flash.
When a Cisco router boots up it will copy the Iowas software from flash into RAM.
Gerring the boot process and then the CPA will execute the IRS.
Some very old models of Cisco routers such as the twenty five hundred rand the Ioway from memory and
flash at the same time but these days the entire operating system is copied into RAM and is run from
RAM in a similar way to a hard drive or flash drive on a computer.
When the router is turned off flash memory doesn't to lose its contents.
Rom is another form of permanent storage.
This memory contains microcode for basic functions to start and maintain the router and includes the
bootstrap code and power on self test or post run.
Also contains run monitor or Rumson which is used for password recovery and for rodded disaster recovery
functions.
Run is nonvolatile So the contents are maintained even when the road is turned off or rebooted.
The Rotto also stores the IP writing table the stores information about directly connected and remote
networks and is used to determine the best path to a local remote network up caches will be used by
the router and those contains the IP version for address to MAC address mappings which is very similar
to the OP Kashan APC.
The cache on road is used on ethernet interfaces and is used for example when the router pings another
device on the local subnet.
The router will send out an op request and when it receives an op response that information is stored
in the OP cache.
Typically however it's populated when PCs or forwarding traffic through a router to a remote destination
PCs will send an op request for a default gateway and the router will reply and hence the cache will
be populated.
Routers also have packet buffers when packets are received on interfaces they are stored in buffers
that was stored in buffers before they exit an interface.
As an example if an interface is congested the buffer of the outgoing interface will fill up with packets
in the queue to be processed out of that interface a rado also has the configuration register which
is stored in nv ram.
This is used to control how a router boots you could configure this valley to get a router to boot into
run monitor mode or to bypass the startup config to do it.
Password recovery and can be used for other functions such as changing the speed of the console port
Erato has multiple interfaces and may include an exit report which is used in the past for modem connections.
It will have a console port.
It may have a use B interface it may have serial interfaces for Ethan it interfaces that gigabit interfaces
and may contain other components such as PV DMD's which are used in voice environments for transcoding.
These have what are called DSP or digital signal processors to convert analog voice into a digital stream.
Various other types of interfaces and components may be found in routers and even servers can be installed
and routers today.